Well, it's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai,
Shenzhen, and here at Hong Kong. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Stephen
Engle with Annabelle Drewlers.
We're counting down. Sorry. All right,
we're starting the show, but we are
counting down to both of our markets in
greater China and our top stories this
morning. Uh Asian stocks jumping. That's
after the US and global shares hit a
fresh record.
>> [music]
>> Uh tech in focus as investors rotate
into other sectors on spending and
valuation concerns. Well, Broadcom
slipping in late trade as a strong
forecast fails to meet investors'
expectations for AI revenue. Also ahead,
Chinese policy makers signal modest
stimulus for next year. That's after
shaking off the impact [music] of US
tariffs. And SoftBank is said to be
considering potential acquisitions,
including [music] data center operator
Switch, as it seeks to ride that AI
boom.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Well, Steve, we are starting off on the
right foot this morning. A little bit
shaky there, but at least Asian equities
are moving to the upside this morning.
So, uh we actually saw dip buyers
essentially emerging on Wall Street
overnight. We had a lot of concern
yesterday in the session on Thursday.
Optimism from the Fed did not translate
because investors were pretty concerned
about Oracle's numbers, but actually you
saw Oracle down in session. You still
saw US futures or equities ending the
day in the green. They're pretty flat
right now, but look at those sectors.
Every single one bar gold, but but all
the major markets this morning
essentially are moving to the upside.
Watching those tech-heavy benchmarks.
You've got the Kospi there for instance
up 1%. Also Taiwan just coming online
7/10 to the upside as well. So, that
momentum, you know, it's that that
question. We've got those rate cuts that
are underway. We've got a new Fed chair
coming in as well. Earnings are trending
higher. So, it does look like the bull
market may be positioned pretty heading
into the end of 2026. We might get that
Santa Claus rally after all, but uh
let's take a look at the Golden Dragon
Index because here we again saw some
modest moves to the downside. It's that
big tech theme still playing out and you
are seeing tech really leading the gains
so far in the session today. But also
what we're seeing for futures. Let's
take a quick look what we've got for for
the for the China market open this
morning, but it really comes down to
that Central Economic Work Conference.
We got that read out.
Seems like they're signaling
modest stimulus more for 2026. So, maybe
the economy just did better than we
thought and you know, it could be a good
thing really.
>> Yeah, I think they really front-loaded a
lot of um
you know, expectations of possible
stimulus because of the uncertainty
coming from abroad, but it as 2025
panned out, I think they're looking at
it
at the end of the year saying, "We
weathered this pretty well."
Uh the the tariff barrage from the Trump
administration, uh obviously the
persistent deflation is still a struggle
uh in China as is the property market.
But again, the Central Economic Work
Conference in its read out essentially
saying that they're going to keep on
supporting growth, but don't necessarily
expect the big bang stimulus that a lot
of people said this economy possibly
needs. So, again, we're on a bit of a no
surprise kind of theme, which some of
the analysts are saying, "Whenever we
get these kind of closed-door meetings
read outs, when they say
pretty much nothing new,
we see a bit of a sell-off. So, we'll
have to look at that." Okay. Okay,
interesting. Well, so far not being
indicated in futures, but maybe it's
that sort of again, broader Asian
equities are moving to the upside. Uh
Broadcom we do need to talk about.
>> We do because we do latch onto every
single possible [laughter]
iteration of negative news, right?
>> factors all become the macro factors
possibly.
>> There's lofty expectations, right? So,
they had a fairly upbeat earnings report
and sales report, but again, it's not
quite up to what
the expectations the markets had for
revenue in the AI space. So, again, in
after hours down almost 5%. Yeah,
interesting moves there. And even though
as we said, it was actually good
guidance. They they were saying they're
going to be making around $19 billion or
just over in the current quarter that
ends in February. That was more than
what Wall Street had been expecting, but
there's that and then you've also got
Central Bank still on tap BSP.
Absolutely. And the Philippines Central
Bank has delivered a fifth consecutive
rate cut to its benchmark interest rate,
a well-telegraphed move that seeks to
boost economic growth. For more on the
outlook, joining us now from Manila is
the governor, Eli Remolona. Good Good
morning, uh sir. Governor, um let's talk
about that rate cut, the fifth rate cut,
200 basis points now totally uh cut
since mid-last year. Uh you've indicated
this might be the last, but again, if
economic conditions deteriorate further,
you are also open uh to more cuts. What
are the data points you'll be looking at
going into the fourth quarter data and
the like? What specifically would you
look at to possibly continue the easing
cycle?
Well, we found with our latest data that
there was room for a cut. Uh inflation
was very manageable.
And then growth was weak.
But the weakness in growth was partly uh
uh due to a loss of confidence
uh because of an infrastructure
scandal.
>> Right. Now, the
the Banco Central can't do very much
about that, but uh we can compensate for
the loss of confidence by uh
by reducing the policy rate. So, the
we can compensate in terms of adding to
growth.
Growth suffered because of that scandal.
Given that scandal, given uh also the
weakening peso and the possibility of
outflows, I mean, are you still pretty
much on the fence about the need to cut
even further or are you going to hold
hold
uh
uh you know, stand still for now?
>> pretty much on the fence, yes. Uh I
think uh we may cut one more time or we
may not.
That's uh that's where we are.
Uh Governor, I know you track the the
PMI data really closely and I think
what's interesting and notable is that
we continue to see a pretty sharp
drop-off in that in that latest
reporting period for it well under the
50 mark. And you're mentioning there
about that flood corruption scandal and
and essentially how it continues to have
a bearing.
Tie those two things together.
Yes, uh the PMI number is one of the
things we follow
to um to follow confidence, to follow
business uh sentiment. And that one,
yes, that one fell quite a bit.
Uh it's recovered a bit. We also look at
the stock market. By the way, the stock
market fell by
about 11%
and it's recovered by by 7%.
So, that's where we are.
>> Okay, but
yeah, okay. So, So, then just to for
people that aren't familiar, just this
this massive corruption scandal that
essentially involves billions of dollars
of pesos or billions of pesos rather in
flood control projects and the way that
that money was being spent and siphoned
off essentially. But how long do you see
the impact then persisting? Do you see
it going well into to next year? Just
give us a sense of that.
We think it
the effect of it will continue into the
early part of 2026.
In the meantime, prosecutions are going
on.
Restitutions of the money
uh that's going on and then we also are
beginning to reform the tax system and
the way the way these projects are
are
are budgeted.
And so, that I think that's the that's a
that's a part that's good news. The
government is using this opportunity
uh
to to improve governance, I would say.
How does it, Governor, directly impact
the decisions you need to make? I was
reading some comments from Fitch in this
part of the world saying, "If the the
political turmoil and the unrest, if you
will, surrounding these protests uh
continue well into 2026, which some uh
expect to do that, uh fiscal policy
implementation could be at risk.
Confidence, business and consumer
confidence could be at risk. And also,
you know, the the sovereign credit
ratings could be at risk." Yes, uh the
demonstrations have been relatively
peaceful.
So, it it wasn't as bad as we had
feared.
Uh at the same time, as you suggested,
uh Standard & Poor's actually affirmed
their positive outlook for the
Philippines.
So, they they discounted
the flood control scandal.
Let's talk about the peso, if you could,
because do you see it possibly weakening
further, testing that 60 to the dollar
handle?
Actually, what happened yesterday is the
peso strengthened.
I think the peso
viewed our decision as a kind of a
hawkish decision. So, it actually
strengthened quite a bit yesterday.
But are you intervening in the FX
market? I know you said
It's closer to 59 than to 60.
>> It it is at it is at 59 right now. Uh
but it's uh weakened about 6.74%
uh since May 23rd. Uh so, there has been
a weakening trend. Uh
What what's your stance right now? Are
you intervening?
We're intervening a little bit. We're
not intervening uh to
to fill a target for the peso. We're
intervening just to uh
uh dampen volatility of the peso.
And and which which tools are you
calling upon then to to do that?
Oh, we use we're using the usual tools.
We're uh
we either uh sell dollars or we buy
dollars.
It's a sure
>> How how do you see sir given give
Given the weaker peso right now, what
what do you expect expecting for
remittances which are a big part uh of
you know the influx for the Philippine
Central Bank essentially increasing
because of the weaker currency and
stronger currencies outside of the
country obviously uh possibly boosting
remittances.
We're seeing remittances remain strong
and actually uh exports have been better
than than before.
So, on the balance of payment side, it's
not uh it's not a drag on the peso.
Uh
the the market seems to have interpreted
our uh
our forward guidance as a hawkish
forward guidance.
That's why the peso strengthened
yesterday.
Let's talk about uh
the the inflation forecast that you've
made as well because I know at least on
the supply side you you look
particularly at factors electricity,
food prices. We've continued to see on
the electricity front the biggest one.
Yes.
>> Yes, maybe a bit of a moderation in the
first half but it definitely a pick up
in prices in the second half. What's the
risk then from that?
Well, we have a high inflation scenario.
So, these are the risk factors uh
risk factors are the price of oil and
the price of food. So, these are supply
factors for imported commodities. Then
locally as you mentioned uh uh we have
regulated electricity prices and that uh
those prices could go up. But that's a
that's a risk. It's not uh it's not our
central scenario.
What what is your central scenario then?
The central scenario is uh
for inflation to be within target very
close to 3%
by the end of 2026.
And uh also on target a 3% target in
2027.
That's our central scenario.
How does that impact then your possible
change in your you know interest rate
scenarios? Um you've you've basically
eased for the better part of the last
year and a half. If you get from 1.5%
current inflation uh to upwards of 3%
inflation, do you see a change in in
focus for for rates become a little bit
more hawkish or is the growth concerns
and the scandal and all the other issues
with the the peso and the like be be the
counterweight?
Yeah, so because uh we're we're in very
good shape when it comes to inflation,
then the focus as you suggested will be
on growth.
Uh if growth is weaker than we had
hoped, then we would we would cut.
But as you know, we're looking at uh
we're looking at the output gap.
And so, if the output gap turns out to
be more negative than we thought, then
we would we would ease.
It's not looking it's not looking that
way uh
Stephen.
So,
I obviously you can't predict what the
data's going to be telling us in the
fourth quarter, but how has the fourth
quarter looked?
We've seen some weakness obviously. Is
it does that give you enough
data and evidence potentially uh to make
a rate decision or another cut at the
next meeting specifically? The
the fourth quarter of 2025
looks worse than we thought.
And that was one of the reasons for the
for the rate cut.
Uh but uh so it's it
the the latest data seem to suggest that
the recovery
will be delayed by a by a quarter of two
or two.
So, we don't see a
significant recovery until the second
half of 2026.
What about the the external factors? Uh
because of course you track exports
closely. They've
held up mostly.
Do you see that changing at all into
next year? Uh
the uncertainty over uh tariffs
is still there. It's been reduced, but
it's still there.
But uh the global growth is uh
that's going on is helping our exports.
So, that's a positive for us.
The uncertainty is a negative for us.
But you're seeing a better outlook
though for trade given the uncertainty
with the United States, uncertainty with
the Chinese economy as well, but you see
an outlook for better trade
east and west?
Yes, yes. The uncertainty part of the
uncertainties is still there. It's not
uh
it's not been completely clarified.
But uh
but our our exports seem to be doing
okay and our remittances seem to be
doing okay.
So, it's not a big risk factor for us
uh when it comes to global growth.
Governor, you said that you're pretty
much on the fence when it comes to the
need for another rate cut, but if you
could
>> Yes.
let us know which way are you leaning?
If you had to go in one direction or the
the other based on what you know today,
what's your expectation?
Well, if we get off the fence, it's
probably
another rate cut, but that's probably
about it.
One more rate cut maybe.
>> gov.
Okay. Governor, great to have you with
us this morning and and great to know
that yeah, maybe easing still it could
be uh the case going into next year. Uh
Governor, thank you very much. That was
the governor of the Philippine Central
Bank there, Eli Remolona, joining us.
And still ahead on the China show, we'll
get a closer look at the Central
Economic Work Conference as that is
Beijing signals only modest stimulus
plans for next [music] year. Counting
down to the open of trade in Shanghai,
Shenzhen, Hong Kong. Asian equities are
moving to the upside. Chinese ones
looking to follow suit. More ahead.
This is the China show.
>> [music]
>> And welcome back to this Friday edition
of the China show here on Bloomberg.
Here's our agenda. It's going to be a
busy [music] Friday as it usually always
is uh heading into the weekend. We're
going to get uh couple of bond sales in
the
China CGBs of two and 10-year bond sales
later today. Chip sector always in
focus, right Annabelle? Absolutely. And
especially on the news of Broadcom with
uh shares down in after hours where uh
essentially their guidance for sales did
not meet extremely high um expectations
for AI sector. Also domestically in
China Huawei and SMIC are making
advances in chip production technology
despite US attempts to limit their
progress. That's a uh highly read story
on the Bloomberg terminal. Rally in
metals continues. Copper at a record
high yet again after that US Fed rate
cut. And again, always on the window for
China credit data and foreign direct
investment.
Well,
uh the big news of course is that we got
that read out from the closely watched
policy meeting in China. It's ended with
officials signaling they will maintain
economic support next year, but as
you've been discussing they're going to
refrain maybe from ramping up into big
stimulus. So, let's bring in our China
correspondent Min Min Loh and and Min
Min, yeah, just
that's that's essentially I feel like
I've taken the the
lead actually. Sorry.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, yeah. Well, nothing surprising as
we know um
in terms of monetary and fiscal policy,
the phrasing has been the same proactive
fiscal policy, moderately loose monetary
policy.
Uh there was one phrase that stands out
slightly different from before. Last
year they mentioned they would cut
interest rates in a timely manner. This
time they avoided that phrase. They said
they would use the interest rate policy
in a flexible manner, which means that
they might you know just it might be
data dependent depending on you know
uncertainties globally and they will
respond accordingly. But when it comes
to the priorities, they've outlined
eight priorities and as expected same as
this year what we got from Lianghui from
the two sessions, top of the priority is
domestic consumption. And then the
second is
boosting the high quality productive
forces. Well, we know coming out of the
Politburo meeting which was held right
before this uh that domestic demand will
be the top priority. But that doesn't
necessarily mean that'll be specific uh
policies to boost consumption, household
consumption. Domestic demand has many
elements including a manufacturing which
they're going to continue to support
even though there's lots of
overcapacity. But is there anything
specific on how to boost consumption at
a time when property is still so weak?
Yeah, there are a few lines. It's a
little bit vague, so we're reading
between the sleeves here, but they
talked about raising incomes of urban
and rural residents. They talked about
optimizing the consumption subsidy
policy. And the word optimizing is quite
interesting. It suggests that maybe it
there's limited room for expansion, but
it suggests that they are going to
extend that policy probably. Um there's
also uh there's going to be an increase
in central government budget, which
suggests again that issuance of the
ultra long treasury bonds which they
used to fund the consumption subsidies
this year. So, maybe they will issue
long-term bonds again to fund some sort
of program maybe to to boost services
consumption because that has been a key
focus this year. There is a mention of
involution as well, tackling that. Also
addressing all the delayed payments to
companies so that companies don't feel
they have to hold back their
investments. So they want to promote
private investment.
And of course
social safety net for disadvantaged
groups, creating employment for fresh
graduates, for migrants.
The usual, but nothing too surprising.
What about on the property front because
we did get quite a lot on that side and
then there was a focus on property
stabilization, but again not really that
new either I guess. Yeah, I think this
is quite disappointing because there are
eight key priorities and resolving risks
in property sector is number eight, the
lowest on the priority list. And they
mentioned you know that they want the
government to
they're encouraging local governments to
acquire the existing housing stock
converting it into offer affordable
housing. But that hasn't worked. That's
how they Yes, they have already done
that.
>> don't want to buy things that have a low
ROI. Yes, exactly. So I mean it's not
new. They already tried that and that's
the problem because this property sector
crisis has been going on for four years.
They have tried many different solutions
and yet we don't see a sustainable
recovery. So what's going to make this
different is the big question and I
think analysts are quite disappointed
about that. In fact, UBS
and analysts there are saying that he is
expecting home prices to continue
declining for at least two more years.
Right, still property malaise ongoing
then we'll have a lot more to talk about
on that front. That was our China
correspondent Min Min Low there and just
as we go to ad break we just got the
yuan fixed as well in the last few
minutes or moments and the reference
rate just a little bit lower than what
we saw yesterday in the session but
coming in at 70638
per US dollar. The estimate had been for
70510.
We leave you with a look of markets
going into the open here. Again, we're
expecting some upside. [music] You can
see so following what we're seeing for
for broader Asian equities today but
more ahead this is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> You're watching the China show and
taking a look at some of the movers in
the early [music] parts of the day. So
SMIC Huawei in focus here but
specifically SMIC and also of course
Huawei not traded but but we are getting
a report out from TechInsights [music]
the teardown firm saying that SMIC and
Huawei are making a lot of advances in
their chip production technology despite
US efforts to curtail them. So [music]
those ones there to watch but also let's
take a look at what's happening in the
property space this morning because as
we said yes, maybe the lowest priority
out of the Central Economic Work
Conference but still China is bowing to
stabilize [music] its property crisis
even though as Min Min said just told us
we could still see prices decelerating
for two more years and finally going to
ad break here with a look at mining
shares ahead of the open. We're seeing
them rising across Asia specifically in
Australia but we have [music] seen the
Federal Reserve interest rate cuts
boosting gold, silver and copper.
>> [music]
>> And welcome back. You are of course
watching the China show and [music] we
are counting down to the open of the
markets in about 40 seconds. It's
futures looking like it's going to be
possibly up day on the markets
despite some conflicting news about AI
and the like but again the Fed cut still
having
>> [music]
>> some wings. Got some wings and and it
seems like investors have brushed aside
any concerns around Oracle's numbers for
instance that we got out yesterday in
late trade and and what they could be
signaling around the AI story going into
2026. [music]
I mean even though actually on that
point you have Broadcom numbers that
have come out again in the last couple
of hours [music]
upbeat for the current quarter.
>> report. But still not enough. You know,
we've seen that stock slumping in late
trade. Let's take a look at our mainland
markets so we're coming online this
morning [music] because uh
I mean at a headline level the big story
in China today is the read out we got
from the Central Economic Work
Conference and if there's really one
line you can take away from this it's
that
it was in line with expectations. That's
what we've really been hearing from a
lot of different economists that are
summarizing their key takeaways. It is
of course the most important policy
setting setting gathering this year but
the the the broad reading from this is
that don't expect any big stimulus big
bang moves in 2026 either. So
you are seeing Asian equities here or
rather the Chinese equities that are
coming online just some modest gains to
the upside across the board. But let's
also take a look at what's happening in
Hong Kong today because there's a couple
of different names that we're going to
be tracking quite closely. Again, still
around that tech theme and I think it's
interesting to point out Baidu actually
because we've got a really great story
out talking about really their chip
efforts. Yeah. And and Kunlun Shin is
their chip division. They're looking at
maybe spinning that off listing again in
Hong Kong in the next even 6 to 9 months
but but it could actually be a stock
that that benefits from
from its full stack capabilities. It's
got the chips division. It's got the
cloud. It's got the application layer as
well.
Tech is going to be the big focus and
you're seeing again a lot of those
gainers Tencent, Alibaba, Meituan,
Xiaomi all tracking higher and you see
the Hang Seng 9/10 of a percent to the
upside. Still in the chip space. Let's
take a look at some of the big movers
today because there's an interesting
story out also from TechInsights. This
is the teardown firm.
And what they've done is is looked at
the latest technology and the progress
that SMIC and Huawei are making
together. Of course SMIC being the
foundry partner for Huawei but they did
a teardown of the latest phone and and
what they found is is that actually it's
showing their latest technology. Still
not quite up to the efficiencies and the
yields of Taiwan Semiconductor or
Samsung but they're gaining. No,
exactly. I mean you they're still off
that point but but at the same time
you do see them even getting creative
with the architecture that they use as
well to to try and at least build those
supercomputing clusters and and and you
know, try and get something that at
least looks a little bit more
comparable. More threats as well. That's
a quite a big drop you're seeing there
15% to the downside but actually they've
come out with a warning saying that the
elevated trading risk or elevated
trading risk are there because we have
seen shares surging more than eightfold.
This is of course a company that only
just listed in Hong Kong last week.
>> Last week. With a huge even up to 500%
surge at the open. Finally, let's take a
look at what's happening in the property
space this morning because we've seen
some mixed moves across property this
week but again it comes back down to
that Central Economic Work Conference
and yes it was as Min Min was saying a
lower priority on the list for for the
government it seems given it came in at
number eight out of eight. But at the
same time we have seen more more moves
to try and stabilize the property
market.
>> no panacea, right? So from policy makers
yet. So we'll still await kind of some
hard firm policy and where that
direction is going because so far this
encouraging
or the government trying to encourage
local governments to buy up the all this
excess inventory and then repackage it
as low income housing not really
working. Yeah. The local governments
don't necessarily want that on their
books. All right, let's get more on the
Central Economic Work Conference and
bring in Helen Chao. She's the greater
China economist at BofA Global Research.
Thanks so much, Helen. Good to see you.
So what's your read out? Is continuity a
good thing for policy because that's
essentially the message that they're
saying that well, the policy in 2025
despite all the headwinds from the trade
front and also persistent deflation, the
property woes it sort of worked for us.
Would you agree with that? Yeah, I would
say that you know, market probably
wasn't expecting much more than what we
just received, all right? First from the
Politburo and then from the CWC.
After all as you said, Steve, this year
turned out to be better than originally
expected and policy makers probably saw
it the same way. So as a result, I
wouldn't say that anyone was
particularly expecting a big bazooka
especially before the end of the year to
be announced. But that said, going into
2026, I think what we are hoping to see
is probably the acknowledgement that it
is going to become tougher and you know,
policy makers are probably going to put
more effort to at least to show that
they're ready to put in more effort.
>> Well, where will they ease?
Well,
they are first of all keeping all the
policy orientations in place, not
changed. So for example, in terms of the
fiscal policy stance called you know,
more proactive and the monetary policy
stance which is moderately loose. They
didn't change any of that. We weren't
expecting them to change either.
But at the same time, however, if you
look at the details released yesterday
from CWC, they seems to be suggesting
that there could be a little bit more
flexibility. For example, when it comes
to monetary policy, this time they
didn't say that it will seek the
opportunity to cut interest rates and
the reserve requirement ratio. They said
it will be flexible and effective in
cutting triple R and interest rate. So
in our view, that probably means a
little bit more you know, constructive.
At least they mentioned this, right? So
you know, compared to the previous
Politburo and and and and other meetings
after May, we at least see that they
have they have this plan that going to
2026 they can do something. That said
fiscal budget deficit probably flat from
this year and I think the market might
be a little bit shake
in a way I would say disappointed
because they didn't mention too much of
the property policy. Yeah. Yeah, well
that's what we were just talking about
earlier. Again, we can maybe get to
property in a moment. I do want to talk
though about the consumption side
because this was highlighted as it's
supposed to be one of the big
areas that well, it was one of the big
areas that came out of the Politburo but
one of the the key priority areas for
2026. Do you think we got enough on on
out of the Central Economic Work
Conference on that front?
Well, CWC set the policy direction for
2026. I think that it has basically
prioritized that this consumption you
know kind of focus etc. And also
mentioned
some of the long-term goals. For
example, a lot of the people talking
about the pro-birth subsidies, right? So
those if you have a baby you got 300 per
month. Um so on a daily basis you got 10
10 yuan.
Not a lot but that is at least a very
novel kind of subsidy that we have seen
that was rolled out in 2025. That will
continue next year. Another big focus is
actually the trading program subsidy.
That is most likely going to stay here
at least until the end of next year.
Does it expand though? That's the
question.
At the moment they didn't mention
anything but we think that it
potentially because on the margin if you
look at the impact right the diminishing
return from that has been coming down
quickly. What about property? What stood
out to you from what they didn't say?
You are the expert.
Not about what the what is said. Right.
[laughter] What is about what it hasn't
been said.
First of all if you look at the property
mentioning it has been pushed down from
number five to number eight bullet and
therefore that probably means less
important compared to before
but secondly I would say also very
importantly the language has been
slightly tweaked. In the in in the
previous Politburo meetings we saw that
they called it the achievement which is
prevented from further slide and let's
achieve stability. This time they didn't
mention that word at all since it hasn't
been achieved
but it did mention that from a risk
prevention perspective they want to make
sure that there is no more downside risk
materializing in this area. So I think
that again it confirms our view that
there is no kind of positive you know
catalyst coming in but more about
preventing the downside. What do you
think then that means for the outlook
around
fixed asset asset investment for
instance into next year the deflation
trajectory as well what what happens do
you think?
I think at the moment fixed asset
investment growth is probably under the
most of pressure. We saw that at the
beginning of the year annual single well
let's say single month growth FAI was at
that time at about 5%. However on a
single month basis this has come down to
0.6 sorry 0.5% in June and minus 11.3%
in October. We're not sure about
November yet but we think it's probably
around like double-digit level of
contraction. So this is not so much
because property has done much worse is
much is actually because infrastructure
and manufacturing fixed asset investment
which used to be holding up reasonably
well now is sliding really fast. So we
are expecting this to probably be you
know hitting us in the worst time around
now like in Q4 but in Q1 we think they
will probably do a bit better especially
helped by some recent policy stimulus
measures. So how does the National
People's Congress then take these
marching orders if you will and put it
into legislation and policy what when Li
Qiang in the first week of March gives
his growth target of around 5% or
whatever it might be
what will be those specific policies
that is going to boost consumption boost
domestic demand and put that floor on
property? Great question. Two very
important points. First as you said
Steve very likely that they are going to
keep the growth target unchanged at
about 5.0% next year. This is because
it's the first year of the five-year
program and probably it would look a
little bit unusual if they downgrade
right in that first year. So most likely
they are keeping it but 5% next year is
going to be you know not a easy piece of
cake like this year. This year wasn't
easy in the first place but next year is
probably going to be tougher. So we are
expecting policy easing to step up. That
includes but are not limited to for
example monetary easing such as interest
rate cuts triple R cuts and as well as
more fiscal easing not just the
restrictive into the central government
budget deficit number per se but more
broadly. We are expecting leverage ratio
from the public sector to go up so that
they can actually put
you know
cushion to the current deceleration
especially in the infrastructure
investment slowdown.
You just back from Beijing late last
night so thanks for joining us early
this morning but what was the the tone
of the conversations you were having
there?
Well I think that policy makers in
general are quite confident and they are
quite satisfied with what we have seen
so far.
So that's in line with our expectation
and and I think that people are
cautiously optimistic about next year
both in terms of you know domestic
demand using different measures to
support but you know not the at the same
time not the least because that they are
also expecting the trade environment to
turn a bit better
especially between US and China we
probably have seen the worst. Yeah I'm
sure Steve's going to be busy around
April with the Trump Xi [laughter]
meeting coming up. And March for the
National People's Congress. Yes of
course. All the different events that
are coming up in the first part of the
year absolutely. But do you expect the
pandas to be the gift by the time that
President Trump comes? Well didn't they
just give a couple to France? Yes they
did. Yeah there's plenty left. There
should be right?
>> [laughter]
>> The panda stock
>> [clears throat]
>> piles okay I didn't know we were going
to talk about that. Helen thank you very
much for joining us this morning that
was Helen Qiao there chief greater China
economist at BofA Global Research and I
taking a look at China's onshore markets
as we go to break this morning and
actually we're seeing some downside
pressure so flipping from from positive
and futures we're coming online to the
downside this morning but more ahead
this is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Well this is an interesting move I have
to say actually.
>> Wasn't the stock up considerably? Yes it
was up as much as 5% or more in the
session. So it was a really strong start
for for SoftBank at the open in Tokyo
but actually over the last couple of
hours or hour or so it's it's it's
flipped into negative territory. So
let's get more on this because part of
that move we were talking about with
SoftBank essentially looking at a
potential acquisitions that could
include the data center operator Switch
as so founder Masayoshi Son hunts for
deals amid the AI infrastructure boom.
So let's bring in our stocks reporter
Alice French joining us for more. So
Alice this might not have been the
narrative you were expecting either to
come and talk about with us but what's
happening and and tell us more about
this latest development.
Yeah it's
the stock move is is interesting for
sure and I think really speaks to the
the sort of jitters and the confusion
that there almost is amongst investors
around AI right now but but yeah so once
again today all about SoftBank this
morning so we've we've heard that they
are looking into potential acquisition
of Switch this US company that operates
data centers we heard last week that
they were also looking into potentially
acquiring Digital Bridge the one one of
the PE backers of Switch. So this is all
part of of Masayoshi Son's you know his
his big bet on AI. We know that this
year they've been piling lots of money
into the space of course you know they
have collaborations with Open AI. We
know that they're looking into
potentially acquiring robotics arm of
ABB kind of trying to go into that
physical AI space so this is really kind
of just the latest development in that
string of of those investments and and
look it you know they they've really
been pedaling the the AI message this
year and the the stock had done really
well. You know it was it was up over
100% at one point. We're now looking at
around an 80% gain so far this year but
I mean you can see from the chart that
the stock has has suffered in the last
sort of month or so down over 30% and I
think there is there's you know we know
that there's nerves in the market about
how much money these companies are are
piling into this AI and data centers
right?
Well Alice is that possibly you know why
the stock shot up at the beginning and
then has pulled back? The due diligence
out there of course and the concerns are
that there's just been overspending on
data centers and it's going to see a
softening.
Is that the possible reasoning?
100% I think that's the that's the sort
of sensible interpretation here. I mean
of course the the big news this week was
Oracle's results and and we saw there'd
been a jump in their data center
spending as well in the past quarter and
that really did seem to kind of ramp up
that caution just across the market. You
know we saw a lot of tech and AI really
suffering over the past two days in in
the stock market because of that and I
think SoftBank is probably you know
lapping up a little bit of that caution
today after that initial bump and you
know as we go into the new year as well
I think this is going to continue to
play out. We'd had so much exuberance
around AI over sort of the first three
quarters of the year but I mean how is
it going to play out in 2026? Physical
AI robots are going to come more into
play. I think investors are going to
start asking to sort of see you know
show me the money show me where all of
this investment is actually going and
what you have to show for it and I think
SoftBank in many ways is kind of a
bellwether of of all of this data
spender and this data center and AI
spending and it'll definitely be
something to watch and as we know it has
a huge impact on on the whole Japanese
stock market particularly the Nikkei
225. So it will be interesting to see
how it ends today I think.
Always never dull moment in this space.
Alice thanks so much Bloomberg's Japan
stocks reporter Alice French. Well other
corporate stories we are following
Chinese AI chipmaker More Threads has
warned investors about [music] elevated
trading risks after
shares of the company surged more than
eightfold in the first week following
its IPO. That says the benchmark CSI 300
index remain largely unchanged during
the same period. The loss-making company
also cautioned about uncertainty
surrounding [music] its new products,
noting that they have not yet generated
revenue.
Well, Disney shares closed higher in the
US after the company announced it's
licensing some of its iconic characters
to open AI for the use on [music] the
startup's video platform. Disney has
also agreed to take a $1 billion stake
[music] in the startup. While the deal
covers some of the firm's more famous
characters, it does not include talent
likenesses or voices.
Well, Lululemon CEO Calvin McDonald will
step down at the end of January as the
company works [music] to reignite
growth. The CFO and chief commercial
officer will serve as interim co-CEOs
while the search for a replacement
continues. Meanwhile, Lululemon shares
surged in extended trading after the
athleisure [music] giant raised its
full-year earnings per share guidance.
And Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi
says the company expects the offer
robo-taxi services in more than 10
markets by the end of this year. Now, he
spoke to us exclusively in Hong Kong
about those plans and why he's
optimistic about their growth potential
in Asia.
The APAC market and in particular the
North Asia markets as well, they are
huge growth markets for us. And if you
look for example in the ride-share
business, over 30% of our global first
trips coming into the category come from
the APAC region.
The area is growing very quickly
including taxi as well, which is
actually one of our newest products on
the platform. So for me coming here,
seeing the teams, meeting with local
business people and regulators and
talking about how we can be part of the
future growth of the region is really
what my agenda is.
Earlier this year you also put out a
statement on on the robo-taxi push as
well. And and
So the Middle East and and Asia were the
markets for 2025 to launch. And we've
seen of course that initial deployment
in the Middle East already.
What's happening on the Asia side? Well,
lots of discussions on the Asia side. I
think what's really important is to set
up a regulatory framework to go forward.
For example, Hong Kong has various
trials and pilots going on and in many
other markets we're talking to
regulators about how we can be a part of
shaping ride-share and autonomous
ride-share going forward. The technology
is absolutely getting there. These are
the robot driver. It doesn't get tired,
doesn't get distracted,
and we very much look forward to working
with various authorities to introduce
ride-share into the markets. We're now
live in four markets now as we speak in
the US and in the Middle East. And I
expect to be in in 10 plus markets by
next year and we want those markets to
be in the Asia-Pacific region as well.
Where then in Asia do you think is the
most likely place?
>> We'll see. I think that certainly Japan
has great potential. You know, with the
They are behind on their regulation.
They are behind in the regulation, but I
think that they also understand that
with an aging population,
there's a real need for transportation
not just in the large cities, but in the
rural areas. And for example, I
experienced that personally going to
Kaga City
and where we have communal ride-share
and kind of took a ride-share trip and
understood what the needs are there. So
we're talking with various
countries regulatory authorities. I
think Japan is going to be part of it. I
certainly hope that Hong Kong is going
to be a part of it. Australia where we
were just talking about is a huge market
for us. So we're having those dialogues
and I think that the the picture will
shape up over the next 2 years because
the technology is definitely getting
there.
That was the Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi
speaking with us earlier and I think it
was it was quite ambitious what he said.
Looking at 10 different robo-taxi
markets by next year. It's they're only
in a handful already just basically in
the US and the Middle East. So to scale
up to 10 it is quite significant. So I
really pressed him on could it be Hong
Kong? Because we know Baidu's Apollo Go
is doing their trials now. Is this the
market possibly? Yeah, well China has a
bunch of sandboxes and test areas and in
the real street situation. But again, is
it next year for full-scale adoption?
It seems, yeah. I mean
Lots of regulatory questions in the
meantime. But if you're a subscriber and
you want to rewatch that interview, you
can buy our interactive TV function.
That's TV Go. Uh you can also become
part of the conversation by sending us
instant messages. So do check it out at
TV Go.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> We're seeing markets in China under
pressure for the most part, but there
are some gainers this morning and
StanChart is one of those. It's actually
just been upgraded to buy at Goldman. Uh
they're looking at improving
profitability [music]
profitability profitability metrics
rather and the possibility for the bank
to raise its return guidance in May.
NetEase is another one as well and the
story here is that uh JP Morgan says
that their shares can extend their rally
on an overseas game push. Also taking a
look at what's happening in the China
chip space today because we had a
teardown from TechInsights uh saying
that Huawei and SMIC are making progress
with their chips despite all of [music]
the efforts from the US to really
restrict or to to stem their advances.
And also taking a look at more threads.
You can see under [music] pressure here.
They have put out a warning on that huge
run-up we've seen in the stock since
it's listing. More ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to the China show taking a
look at the Hang Seng half an [music]
hour into the session. Actually, there's
quite a bit of divergence you're seeing
A and H shares today because the Hang
Seng is continuing to track higher.
>> [music]
>> Uh just given what we had in the US
session overnight, it was strong. We we
saw some fears around what was happening
with with Oracle late trade yesterday
when we got those numbers, but it didn't
really extend overnight into the US cuz
dip buyers started to emerge which maybe
wouldn't have been anticipated, but you
certainly saw that VIX tracking back
down as well. So it seems like really
people were taking it in their stride
essentially the figures as well. Uh so
we are just taking a look at broader
markets today. We shift on and and see
there, but it is the tech heavy gauges
that are very much the focus for us. You
can see the Hang Seng tech index for
instance again up 9/10 of a percent. Uh
also Taiwan the Kospi index posting some
pretty good gains. The CSI 300 as I said
where mainland stocks are under pressure
so far.
Metals to watch as well because it is
again that still digesting the the the
Fed trajectory and and that cut we had
earlier this week, but we've seen some
record gains essentially for silver,
gold, copper. Yes, a little bit negative
today, but you are sitting at again
record highs around that point. Asia
mining stocks of course the
beneficiaries out of this sort of
environment. You have seen a lot of
those gains particularly notable what we
see in the Aussie ones, but even the
likes of Zijin Mining for instance in
China up 2 and 1/2% so far today, Steve.
>> You know, those discrepancies we were
talking about in the AI theme really
played out on the market as well with
Broadcom because their results were
pretty good
overall, but again, they didn't
necessarily in their guidance give meet
the lofty expectations for the AI
market. The stock slipping in after
hours after its sales outlook for the AI
market didn't meet those expectations.
Also, they didn't give
revenue outlook for the AI market in
2026. So that was Yeah, but the guidance
was strong.
It's just not as strong as
>> current quarter. So yeah, I mean and
it's and outpacing what what some have
been expecting cuz I think they're
saying for the current quarter they're
going to make around $19.1 billion that
ends February 1. Analysts were looking
at around 18 and 1/2 on average, 18 and
1/2 billion that is. But certainly does
have ties into some of the biggest
players in the market the likes of Open
AI and Anthropic, Google or Alphabet as
well. That's right. So we're also
tracking the readout from the Central
Economic Work Conference in Beijing that
came on the heels of the Politburo
meeting. Essentially, they signaled that
Beijing will maintain economic support,
but refrain from ramping up big stimulus
for 2026. It shows that policymakers are
essentially
content with the current pace of policy
the current policy framework allowing
them to stick with manufacturing led
growth while also encouraging
consumption. Yeah. So we are of course
continuing to get reactions from this.
We just were speaking with Helen Qiao
for instance from BofA Global Research
in the past hour. She's a chief China
chief greater China economist rather,
but here's her thoughts on the readout.
Market probably wasn't expecting much
more than what we just received, all
right? First of from the Politburo and
then from the CWC.
After all, as you said Steve, this year
turned out to be better than originally
expected and policymakers probably saw
it the same way. So as a result, I
wouldn't say that anyone was
particularly expecting a big bazooka
especially before the end of the year to
be announced. But that said, going into
2026, I think what we are hoping to see
is probably the acknowledgement that it
is going to become tougher and you know,
policymakers are probably going to put
more effort to at least to show that
they're ready to put in more effort.
For more on the market moves, we're
joined by Ben Bennett this morning. He's
Asia head of investment strategy at L&G,
and I think if you were to sort of tie
two themes together, you've got the US
economy, the Chinese economy, both did
better than expected.
How does that set us up then for for
equity market trading activity into next
year? Yeah, and in particular in China,
the I guess Chinese stocks were cheap at
the start of last year, weren't they?
They're no longer cheap, and everyone is
if you look at the all the outlooks for
2026, the everyone is pretty much the
same way focused that it's going to be
okay growth, not stellar, not recession,
okay growth. It's going to be interest
rates around neutral. Government bond
yields have come down. So, it's a
benign, I guess benign positive outlook.
But frankly, that's what's priced in
into markets again, isn't it? So, but
what I would say, which is really
fascinating, is that everyone is so
closely around that benign outlook. It's
it's so concentrated. So, if we do get a
risk either way, I think the market
reaction's going to be quite
exaggerated. That's the thing that we're
trying to think about.
>> Well, let's go to the US right now. What
is your outlook for the beginning part
of the year where some people are saying
that the specter of inflation will rear
its ugly head on the back of the tariffs
that were introduced this year.
And again, you're going to get a change
at the top of the Fed as well. So, you
have a cut here by Jay Powell last week.
>> Yeah.
Then or or this week, then then what?
>> It's probably going to be a pause, isn't
it? But I think that's what everyone
thinks. It's going to be a pause, and
the rest of the year will be fine as
well. So, maybe there could be a bit of
a wobble at the beginning of the year
just cuz we don't know what's going to
happen, but everyone is hopeful that
there's still going to be a good rest of
the year.
From our perspective, we cut a little
bit of our equity exposure into the end
of the year just cuz we were worried a
bit about the AI wobble. We're worried
about the uncertainty around the Fed,
but our more neutral position going into
next year would be to to add a little
bit of risk and just hold that neutral
over the course of the year. We're a
little bit more worried about credit
markets than equities, actually.
Equities look okay. Credit could be a
little bit of a concern.
Yeah, let's talk about credit then
because I think yeah, you're expecting a
lot more issuance, particularly as we
have this AI infrastructure buildout.
And you think about the sort of
spreads to treasuries on these, it's not
that big. So, you're being asked to take
on quite a lot of risk really on even a
30-year time horizon for technologies
and and you know, companies that are
still really relatively untested.
>> Yeah, what's going to be the payout? So,
AI is great. So, you you've got two
sides. You've got the equity side, and
we're starting to see the winners and
losers come out in equities, aren't we?
So, some of them some of the names are
doing really well. We've seen a couple
of results recently that have been
weaker in Oracle and Broadcom, and the
market reaction's been negative. But we
still quite like that equity trade.
We're long technology equities. Credit,
there's going to be a huge amount of
issuance, and the numbers keep
accelerating the expectations for credit
issuance. I saw that in the middle of
the year, people were expecting maybe
$200 billion of issuance in the public
credit markets over the next 3 years. We
now think it's going to be between 5 and
800 billion a year across public and
private. Yeah, that's going to be
digested in the context of about 1 and
1/2 trillion dollars worth of issuance
every year
in the overall non-treasury market.
Another 5 to 800 billion is 30 to 50%.
So, of course, you're going to have to
see wider spreads, higher yields in
order to digest that, in order to
attract that money from other parts of
the market. So, yeah, we think credit
spreads over the course of the year
might be
20 basis points wider or so. Again, not
a disaster, but if you want to put your
money somewhere, maybe equities in the
AI trade right now is a little bit
better than the the credit trade.
>> But that still puts pressure on the
issuers, that that the sort of market
dynamic. So, don't you see a feed across
into the equity picture then, too? And
and especially, I don't really
understand why we saw that that sort of
Yes, a knee-jerk reaction on Oracle, and
you still saw it down in the session,
but overall, people took it in their
stride, and that part I don't really get
in the sense that it was a huge capex
spend.
>> Yeah. Still not that ROI. Yeah, so
the time that I remember, which is quite
like this, was in the beginning of the
early 2000s in Europe when they were
doing all these 3G licenses. There was
lots of
auctions, and and these companies,
France Telecom, Telecom Italia, were
buying this. The problem was when they
started overpaying, you started to see
wobbles in the credit market feed back
into the equity market. And broadly,
funnily enough, some of these companies
were rewarded for missing one of these
auctions. So, I would be the most
worried if you start to see equity
markets reward these AI companies when
they cut their capex. Right now, it's
all about higher capex. That's good
news. When they get rewarded for
cutting, that tells you that the credit
markets are in charge a little bit. Mhm.
>> Bringing you back to this part of the
world, what's your outlook for Japan
because Takayuki-san has expansionary
policies. Are we going to get a rate
decision from the BOJ as well, possibly
tightening?
The yen still languishing at 155. It's a
big basket of questions, but what's your
focus on Japan right now? So, the first
thing I'd say about Japan, the yen, is
that it's potentially one of those
currencies that can protect you if you
get a downside surprise to this benign
outlook for the world. Everyone thinks
it's a benign outlook for the world. If
we get some wobbles in the labor market,
the yen is usually a good currency to be
holding. So, we're long the yen right
now just for that reason, not cuz of
Japan, but because of a a risk-off
currency just to hedge some of our
positions.
On the government bond yield curve, we
like flatteners. The curve in Japan is
so so so steep. If you look at the long
end, 10 to 30 year, that curve right now
is about as steep as it ever has been
across loads of developed market
economies outside of fiscal crises. Is
there going to be a fiscal crisis in
Japan? Probably not, maybe, but probably
not. And if there isn't one, I think
that curve flattens. So, the yen as a
hedge a bit,
but what are going to be the catalyst to
improve from 155 or strengthen because
job owning hasn't seemed to work.
Intervention at 160 worked a little bit,
but then again, we're right back there
creeping up towards 160. Yeah, so I
don't I don't see a particular catalyst
apart from the global risk-off. All I'd
say is that it's a it's a common short.
It's a sentiment thing. Everyone I think
thinks that the yen is weaker. Everyone
knows about Takayuki. It's in the price,
and therefore from the that basis, I
quite like it as a as a reverse hedge.
This time last year, everyone thought
the dollar was going to rally in 2026
2025. And actually, that sentiment was
the thing that turned the dollar. So,
maybe the same thing can happen in
Japan.
All right, this is Asia. Let's just talk
about Europe to finish up here. What are
you expecting next year, and what are
you what are your what are your trades
in particular?
Uh so, I think if you look at the French
government bond market, I quite like
that risk rather spread that you get.
French political risk is well known.
It's a trade that everyone's got on, but
frankly, there's political risk
everywhere, isn't there? At least you're
getting paid for it in France. So, we
quite like that trade. We'll we'll see
what happens in the budgets in the next
couple of weeks' time, but we quite like
that trade as to go forward.
And the UK as well, everyone is is
worried about the UK. I think the
government and the Treasury is also
focused on that curve, worried about
high yields, and they might be a little
bit more fiscally conservative than
we're worried about. So, again, I quite
like the UK here. Ben, thanks so much
for your time. Have a great holiday
season. Hope you can unplug and recharge
for the new year. It's going to be
interesting, obviously. Asia head of
investment strategy at L&G, Ben Bennett.
Thanks so much for joining us. Still
ahead, an early election on [music] the
cards for Thailand as the Prime Minister
dissolves Parliament amid a bloody
border conflict with Cambodia. [music]
Details next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> And welcome back. You're watching the
China show here on Bloomberg. Well,
Thailand is heading for an early
election after the Thai Prime Minister
dissolved Parliament late on Thursday.
It comes amid a border conflict with
Cambodia that's seen multiple casualties
on both sides.
Bloomberg's team leader for Southeast
Asia and economics and government,
Ramsey Al Rikabi, joins us from Bangkok.
We just have some
crossing lines on the terminal
essentially saying the Prime Minister
Newton uh
does not necessarily see
an impact of that dissolution having an
impact on the border spat that is
happening with Cambodia. Give us the the
latest update on the ramifications of
this move by the Prime Minister.
All right, good morning, folks. Yeah, so
last late last night, the Prime Minister
dissolved uh Parliament, which is a bit
of a surprise move. He had He had
planned to do this a little bit later,
but he
felt a bit of heat. Just as some
background, he's got a minority
party that's backing him.
The the People's Party, which is more
popular than his own. Um now,
to to get become the Prime Minister, he
had guaranteed them that he would help
amend the constitution. He backtracked
on that. They threatened a no-confidence
vote. And so, he decided to go early
with elections. Now, one of the reasons
why this he's in a bit of a good
position to do that is unfortunately
because of the border clash with
Cambodia. That has stirred up a lot of
nationalist fervor. He's been incredibly
He's tried to
project an image of being very strong on
the border, not giving an inch, even
pushing back against pressure from the
US and Donald Trump to to stop fighting
on the border. His predecessor, if you
remember, was ousted because she bungled
how the border clash was was managed.
So, at this point, he sees pressure
coming from his
his partners in Parliament. He
dissolves, calls elections, and hopes
that you know, this this
war that he's fighting gives him the
nationalist edge to maybe expand his his
coalition and then get a fresh mandate.
Yeah, exactly. I mean, the
we have seen that strong nationalist
sentiment off the back of this border
clash. So, what is the outlook in terms
of the timing here and and and the next
steps essentially?
Yeah, so the the the the the the Royal
Court has has has approved the
dissolution of Parliament and now it
goes to the Election Commission to
decide when they will do it. I believe
that it needs to be between 45 to 60
days, so that puts us somewhere between
late January and say like the first week
or so of February. So, from now until
then we see Anutin is going to get get
rolling on the the campaign trail. The
People's Party this time has three
candidates that it could
that it could field. Again, it's more
has been more popular in the past than
than than his party. It's one of the the
most the most popular, but it because it
the reforms it's called for particularly
around the royal insult laws and around
the constitution,
the so-called establishment in in in
Thailand has been able to to more or
less
that party, has had
its its candidates thrown out, has had
them kicked out of politics, has had
charges brought against them to sort of
keep those reforms from happening. So,
it'll be an interesting next
two months to see how a very popular
party calling for reforms takes on
a pretty well-established establishment
party that has been pretty strong
against its neighbor in this war.
Hey Ramsey, a last question for you.
It's kind of a two-parter. What's been
the market and then economic impact of
this
how it's been transpiring [snorts]
and then where's the wild card Donald
Trump who said he's going to be giving a
call to the governments in Bangkok as
well as in Phnom Penh to try and use his
leverage.
You know,
where do we go from here with that?
Yeah.
Yeah, the the market impact will
probably be negative and that's the and
Thailand's been seeing a lot of that I I
believe. I might I'm not sure if I get
this right, but I think it's
the Thai index is like the fourth
worst-performing in the world right now.
So, they've been on a slide. The the
economy is growing at a pretty anemic
rate. I think in the last quarter around
1 1.2%
the the and then oddly the the baht its
currency is is actually quite strong
right now for for various trade and
commodity reasons, which is not going to
help its exports, which are also seeing
the um
the headwinds from those Trump tariffs.
Now, as that call comes with Trump, this
has been a really interesting dynamic
for Anutin. He needs this trade deal
with Trump to kind of, you know, ease
the the tension with the tariffs, get as
much advantage as he can in that deal.
Trump wants to win a Nobel Peace Prize
and he's been calling on Anutin and
Cambodia to to cool it on the border. If
you remember in October they had this
big signing ceremony at the in Kuala
Lumpur over a peace agreement. Anutin
has said he has successfully convinced
Trump to let him separate how he handles
the border with how he handles
trade, but as I'm sure you've seen Trump
in the last couple days has said he's
going to he's going to get him on the
phone again to try to end this thing.
So, this is a really really
fine line Anutin needs to walk between,
you know, looking strong on the border
for the domestic audience, but if he
tries to push a little too hard, Trump
could squeeze him on the trade side.
Yeah, certainly big one for Thai stocks
as you said really one of the
worst-performing equity gauges for 2025
worldwide, but that was Ramsey Al-Rikaby
there who leads our Southeast Asia
economics and government coverage. Now,
let's shift to some other world news
that we're tracking this morning because
PDD shares slid in New York. That's
after Bloomberg reported that at least
two fistfights broke out last week
[music] between the company's employees
and Chinese regulators. Sources say
officials were investigating reports of
fraudulent deliveries on PDD's platform
with police making several arrests.
Whenw World says the account of the
fistfights is false and it bears no
relation to reality.
Terraform Labs co-founder Do Kwon has
been sentenced [music] to 15 years in
prison for fraud tied to the $40 billion
collapse of the Terra USD stablecoin in
2002.
A New York judge handed down the verdict
saying the fraud was on an epic
generational scale [music]
and caused significant monetary harm.
The 34-year-old still faces fraud
charges in [music] his native South
Korea.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy
has floated the prospect of allowing
Ukrainians to vote on whether to hand
the Donbas [music] region to Russia. He
says the Ukrainian people must have a
say on the matter whether in the form of
an election or referendum. Ukrainian
territory is at the center of ongoing
discussions among Washington, Kyiv and
Moscow as its negotiators inch toward a
potential agreement to end the war.
We'll leave you with a check of how
Asian equities are faring so far in
mainland Hong Kong in particular cuz
we're still seeing that divergence. It's
actually quite strong now. The CSI 300
again in the red down 3/10 [music] of
1%, but you are seeing Hang Seng
continuing to push higher. More ahead,
this is Bloomberg.
Rivian shares fell in New York. That's
after the company unveiled its own AI
chip designed to replace Nvidia's.
[music]
The automaker announced it will equip
its upcoming R2 sport utility vehicles
with Rivian chips and a new lidar
sensor. Its CEO told us the move is part
of a broader push to enhance automated
driving features.
Rivian launched the first vehicles in in
the 2021 and almost immediately
following that we began the process of
designing the clean sheet approach to
how we were going to integrate AI across
the business. That's on the autonomy
platform and that's at the the backbone
level of the vehicle and of course at
the enterprise.
And in doing that we redefined the
architecture and the first embodiment of
that was actually in our Gen 2 fleet.
And so the Gen 2 fleet was a 10x
improvement in the compute, dramatic
improvement in the camera platform.
But while that was something we showed
publicly and and really launched, think
of it as like the data flywheel for
building this this large training
environment for building out our
foundation model.
We also were developing hardware in
parallel that we didn't talk about. And
so that's what's going into our Gen 3
architecture. So, that's an in-house
processor that really significantly
improves the compute capabilities in the
vehicle, further enhancements on the
camera platforms we developed in-house,
and then the inclusion of a lidar in the
vehicle as well. So, so these three
pieces
the core. But the specifics are
important.
Wrap one, in-house custom silicon, the
lidar sensor indented design. Yeah,
cool. Yeah, it looks uh And then the
work on software, that trio is specific
to R2 and then R3.
>> Yeah. But the point is that it unlocks
to your mind
not too distant future where those
vehicles will offer the owners a genuine
set of autonomous capability.
Absolutely. And I think an important
point I'm glad you made the distinction.
There's a software element to this that
with the Gen 2 vehicles, our R1
vehicles,
where this is designed around an
AI-centric approach. And so the way that
the vehicles are operating, there's a
large driving model
that we continually improve through the
deployed fleet of which is generating
millions and millions of miles every
day.
>> Existing R1s, but the second iteration
of it. What you call Gen 2. What we call
Gen 2. So, those launched a little more
than a year ago.
And those Gen 2 vehicles are part of the
training flywheel for the model,
but they'll also see enhancements. And
so
the first of which we're going to be
putting out through an OTA an
over-the-air update later this month
where we'll expand
miles in North America. And that's where
the vehicle will be able to operate
with it your hands off the wheel.
And then shortly thereafter in 2026
we'll add point-to-point navigation,
meaning you can get into the car,
plug in the address and it'll drive
entirely on its own to that address.
>> That requires supervision and there will
be attention monitoring. And so there'll
be somebody in the car still hands off
the wheel, but still eyes on the road.
And that's actually the demo that that
we're showing today.
And so that's just a preview of what's
to come in 2026.
That was Rivian CEO RJ Scaringe speaking
with Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow. And yeah, we
saw that stock slump. It's actually
worth checking some of the movers as
well in the session today because we're
watching Samsung actually. It's a little
bit higher. There is some reporting out
from from local media in Korea and
they're saying that Elon Musk actually
met with J. Y. Lee at the Samsung
foundry plant in Texas. Now, the
background on this is that Samsung's
making Tesla AI chips. It's a multi-year
deal. I can see you're smiling there,
Steve. Well, I love the line in the
story that say Samsung provided a
dedicated workspace for Musk at the
plant. So, that's at his request. So,
Musk is going to be pretty hands-on.
Yeah, well we know of course that he's
someone who likes to sleep in the
office. So, obviously he's found a new
bed there maybe. Samsung [music] Fire &
Marine, this is an interesting one as
well cuz the shares dropped as much as
22% yesterday
or have plunged as much as 22%, but we
saw a 28% rise the day [music] prior.
Maybe there was a fat-finger trading
error ETF rebalancing that increased its
weighting. That was Yonhap saying
[music] that. We'll get the details
ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
It's back to the race, right? So, China
will not accept to be cut off from
technology. Right, if you have 1.4
billion people, you want to advance. So,
this this is just a reality.
Then, I think the West
could make the choice to continue to
keep China behind by saying, "Well,
we're not going to provide them the
latest and greatest product, but you
know, we could provide a third, fourth,
or the fifth generation."
Today, the product we ship to China are
eight generations behind our I and E
tool we talked about. So, we're quite
far behind. The tool we ship to China we
were shipping to our customer
in the Western world in 2013, 2014. So,
it's more than 10 years. And China, of
course,
is suffering from that. They their
technology progress has slowed down.
Now, the question is how far do you push
that?
Do we keep them behind 5, 10, 15 years?
Not for me to decide.
Or do we frustrate them to the point
where they have no choice
but to stop depending on Western
technology, which for us it means on the
long term that part of the trade is
gone. They develop their own product,
which they have done already for many
things, and at some point of time they
could even come back to us and sell
those product. So, I think
it's mostly time to find the right
balance between
you know, the frustration, the delay,
and what could be the consequence of
that. And I think that the right the
right question is most probably how far
behind do we want China to be.
That was the ASML CEO, Christoph
Fouquet, there speaking as the firm
looks to balance his business with
Beijing while maintaining close ties to
to Washington as well. You can catch the
full interview on Bloomberg Tech Europe.
That's at 2:30 p.m. Hong Kong, 6:30 a.m.
if you're watching in London. And
I think that really sort of sets the
tone for a lot of companies that are
that are sort of trying to straddle
both. Many many companies across Taiwan,
Europe, you know, they're trying to do
business in China. They're trying to
keep their ties with Washington as well,
but uh Yeah, because their projections
and their business is not as bifurcated
as the political world is, right? So,
it's very tricky, obviously.
>> Yeah, yeah. Well, let's get more on the
broader tech outlook now. Bringing Axel
Granger, co-head of APAC TMT at UBS, uh
joining us for your first interview. So,
thank you for making the time for
Bloomberg TV. But let's just talk about
the the the state of play, I guess, as
we wrap up 2025. It's been another huge
year for tech and and optimism around AI
has continued to dominate, but doesn't
look to be slowing down anytime soon,
either. No, absolutely. And a pleasure
being here and and and and with you with
Annabelle and Stephen this morning. Um
so, if you look at um 2025, um as you
rightly pointed out, it has been a a
very eventful for the the APAC tech
ecosystem. Um
looking back at uh the past 12 months,
um there was uh a bit of a slow Q1 with
um a lot of volatility in the market,
which was not uh very conducive for uh
for the pricing of our transactions. Uh
then we saw um an acceleration in Q2 um
in the in with a resurgence of deal
activity.
Uh that resurgence in deal activity uh
has um actually accelerated uh through
the summer and is not stopping. Um so,
although today is December 12, um what
we can see it's um the the level of
activity is extremely strong uh
throughout the year end. Uh typically we
see a bit of a slowdown at this time of
the year in the market. Right now, we're
seeing nothing, actually. We see um uh
professionals, issuers, um working very
hard for the the year end uh with a view
as well to have that momentum to
continue into first half. What sectors,
specifically, will be the top priority
and focus for 2026? I mean, data centers
is a big one right now, obviously. You
have SoftBank looking at acquisitions.
You have also a lot of questions about
uh valuations as well as whether this is
an overspend in AI. What what's going to
be the big trend in that space in Asia?
Yes. Um I think very very good question.
So, you touch upon upon AI valuation um
and then uh the data center impact. And
then if we bring that back home to to
the APAC region. Um I think a few
things. When you think about um
AI and AI valuation and and why there is
a lot of noise around that at this
moment. Um that's probably from the
infrastructure investments uh which make
a lot of headline, uh mostly in the US.
Um and that's where we we see every week
a lot of news. There was some good
reporting as well by Bloomberg about
some of those investments being
to some extent a bit circular and what
that could mean. Um now, if you
transpose to um to what's happening in
this part of the world in APAC, um
I would say a few things. One, uh from a
valuation standpoint, um there is still
a big gap.
Looking at very uh simple statistics, uh
P multiple of the NASDAQ is at 40,
between 40 and 45, depending on the
week. Um
I would say if you come closer to here,
the Hang Seng, and if you even focus on
the Hang Seng tech index, we're at about
25 to 26. So, there's still a I would
say a big gap in term of valuation
between the US and here. Um and the
second aspect as well, it's um the Asia
tech ecosystem is much broader than just
AI infrastructure than the gigafactory
we have here. Um so, to answer your
question, um we see a lot of activity
which is much more broad-based um as
opposed to just being on the AI DC. We
see that on the internet space with a
lot of deals. Uh we did a CB earlier
this year for Alibaba, a few hundred
million dollars. Uh we did as well uh a
GPR for Wistron in Taiwan, which is a
tech hardware company. So, it's much
more broad-based than I would say one uh
specific stock or subsector. What do you
see then around issuance in particular?
We just were speaking about this at the
top of the hour and how this really
expected to be sort of a corporate
deluge into to next year. What does it
look like and then what's sort of the
pricing going to be as well, do you
think?
>> Yes.
Uh I mean, you are right. Um I would not
say deluge because deluge may be have a
negative connotation, but there is a lot
of activity, indeed,
um that um we have seen as well um in
the second half of this year I was
mentioning earlier. And we expect that
to continue in the first half. Um we um
we have um just on the UBS alone um for
Hong Kong um more than um double-digit
uh companies where we have already
um A1 being filed or having been filed
and going into pricing in in the first
half and in the Q1. So, we have I would
say the near term um and we expect a
very strong level of activity. That's
what we can see. Um and I think what is
interesting is not only on the issuer
side, but on the investor side uh where
there is actually significant pent-up
demand to invest here in the region. So,
there is still a lot of untapped
liquidity uh which I think will go into
the equity markets. So, then do you see
the pricing sticking relatively close to
to treasuries then? It's not going to be
too expensive, do you expect?
>> Yes. I think it depend on the subsector.
So, right now, what we see from the
investor side, um they're not overly
concerned in the valuation uh on the
Asia side. I think it's more specific to
um to um to some uh US infrastructure
stock or the AI ecosystem, but over here
um I think you have some as well um
company where the valuation are still I
would say relatively attractive. Um and
secondly, where actually the the
financial fundamentals are very strong.
Uh we have a lot of issuers um and why I
think the reason we're bullish about
next year on the on the APAC tech scene
is because um you have as well issuers
which have um a lot of very good
factors, very strong technology. Um they
have as well uh they have a global
reach. Uh so, we're talking about Asian
companies, but they serve the global
markets. Um and then number three, uh
companies which are very strong
financial fundamentals, which generate
cash flows um and and growing very
nicely. Well, this part of the world, as
you mentioned you know, a couple of
answers ago about uh the tech supply
chain, is largely located in this part
of the world. But where will then from
the supply chain of parts to the end
product, what are going to be those
emerging technologies?
>> Yes. Yes. So, um
so, you you you highlighted a very good
point, uh which is the uh the supply
chain is primarily located in this part
of the world, and that's a very strength
of the APAC tech ecosystem. Um um
What we have here, and and China is a
great example, um
it's not only the supply chain.
Actually, we have the whole uh what we
call the China tech stack, uh which is
located here, which is developing here.
So, you have from the the hardware
piece, um which is I would say the base,
um uh the foundation, and there is a lot
of investment going there uh in the
region. Um then you have the uh the
models, the large language models coming
from this part of the world as well. Uh
China has a number of those being
developed and competing well with others
um globally. And then you have the
applications uh which go to the end
consumer. So, what we see is the whole
tech ecosystem actually being developed
here as opposed to just one part. Um so,
that I would say um create as well a lot
of catalysts uh for being a bit more
immune for what could happen in other
markets, especially in the Western
markets.
>> All right, Axel Granger, co-head of APAC
TMT at UBS. Hopefully, we'll see you at
the Greater China Conference in January
up in Shanghai, where we will be
attending. All right, we'll have plenty
more ahead as we wrap up the last half
hour of
the China show here on Bloomberg.
The Uber CEO, Dara Khosrowshahi, says
[music] the company expects to offer
robotaxi services in more than 10
markets by the end of next year.
Khosrowshahi spoke to us exclusively in
Hong Kong about those plans and why he's
optimistic about the company's growth
potential in Asia.
The APAC market, and in particular the
uh North Asia markets as well, they are
huge growth markets for us. And if you
look, for example in the ride share
business, over 30% of our global first
trips coming into the category come from
the APAC region. Um the area is growing
very quickly including taxi as well,
which is actually one of our newest
products on the platform. Uh so for me
coming here, seeing the teams, meeting
with local uh business people and
regulators, uh and talking about how we
can be part of the future growth of the
region is really what my agenda is.
Earlier this year you also put out a
statement on on the robo taxi push as
well.
>> Yes.
So the Middle East and and Asia were the
markets for 2025 to launch. And we've
seen of course that initial deployment
in the Middle East already.
What's happening on the Asia side? Well,
uh lots of discussions on the Asia side.
Uh I think what's really important is to
set up a regulatory framework uh to go
forward.
Uh for example, Hong Kong has various
trials and pilots going on and in many
other markets. We're talking to
regulators about how we can be a part of
shaping ride share and autonomous ride
share going forward. The technology is
absolutely getting there. Uh these are
the robot driver. It doesn't get tired,
doesn't get distracted. Uh and we very
much look forward to working with
various authorities to introduce ride
share into the markets. We're now live
in four markets now as we speak in the
US uh and in the Middle East. And I
expect to be in in 10 plus markets by
next year. And we want those markets to
be in the Asia Pacific region as well.
Where then in Asia do you think is the
most likely place? Uh we'll see. I think
that certainly Japan uh has great
potential. Uh you know, with uh
>> They are behind on the regulation. They
are behind on the regulation, but I
think that they also understand that
with an aging population
uh there's a real need for
transportation not just in the large
cities, but in the rural areas. And for
example, I experienced that personally
going to Kaga City. Uh and where we have
communal ride share and kind of took a
ride share trip and understood what the
needs are there. So we're talking with
various
uh countries' regulatory authorities. I
think Japan is going to be part of it. I
certainly hope that Hong Kong is going
to be a part of it. Australia, where uh
we were just talking about, is a huge
market for us. So we're having those
dialogues and I think that uh the the
picture will shape up over the next 2
years because the technology is
definitely getting there. Speaking of
Hong Kong because we do see the trials
that are underway and and they're being
conducted by by Baidu's Apollo Go
program.
Would you be looking to work with them
on that or are you working with them on
that? Baidu is a partner of ours. So we
partner with Baidu. We're in Waymo for
example in Abu Dhabi and expanding
there. Pony is another partner of ours.
Uh so we absolutely expect to be on the
road with all three of them. When you
look at Chinese autonomous technology
and the development there, they are one
of the leaders on a global basis. And
for us, we want to partner with a whole
autonomous ecosystem to bring this
technology to reality. I do find it
interesting on on Baidu in particular
with the Apollo Go program because
they are conducting the trials here.
They're already starting to remove the
human drivers across some of their
markets in mainland China. The way that
you can get a Baidu Apollo Go ride in
mainland China is often through a Baidu
controlled platform. Do you see that
risk of them maybe pursuing that
strategy here instead of teaming up with
you on it? I don't think it's going to
be black and white in terms of the
strategy. I think that there could be
many uh hybrid approaches. Uh and and
you know, I compare it to the food
delivery business. Uh for example, we
work with Starbucks or McDonald's that
has a direct app and customers go direct
to get the food there. At the same time
they also participate in the
marketplace. So I think the autonomous
uh ecosystem will be the same way. There
will be some direct uh
kind of uh some customers going direct.
And we think that with the Uber
marketplace, we can bring
the kind of demand that over 200 million
monthly active platform customers can
bring to autonomous so that we get those
cars on the road and incredibly busy
with very high utilization.
Let's talk about the US as well because
you're partnering there with with Waymo
as well or in certain cities.
>> partner. Yeah, terrific partner.
Actually in the latest earnings I think
you said excellent as well. But uh in
some places Waymo is expanding into new
cities without you and becoming a direct
competitor and that's something that was
highlighted even by by Wedbush early
this week as being a potential risk uh
for your business next year. How are you
assessing that? Well, I think it's it's
uh the same example that I gave you.
That in some ways the McDonald's app is
a competitor to Uber Eats.
Uh and the two can coexist. And it's
very very early in the development of
autonomous. We have to make sure that we
have access to autonomous technology in
the major cities that have the right
regulatory frameworks to allow
autonomous. And we're very confident as
we look at our road map and we look at
our partners, we have over 20 partners,
autonomous partners globally, that we
will have access to autonomous
technologies in the large cities and
markets uh that really count.
When you say access to 20 different
partners, do you think that that is the
way that the industry will continue to
evolve or do you expect consolidation on
on the robo taxi side as well or the
autonomous driving software side?
>> seeing is this is a trillion dollar plus
market uh in terms of autonomous uh
mobility. I think delivery eventually
will be of a similar size. And when you
have markets that are that large, you
usually don't have winner take all. It's
the same way with these uh uh LLM
models. There are many to choose from
whether it's an Open AI or Gemini. And I
think the same will be true of
autonomous.
That was the Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi
speaking exclusively with us earlier
today. And if you're a subscriber or you
want to rewatch that interview, you can
via interactive TV function TV Go. So do
check it [music] out at TV Go.
This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back to the China show of
Japanese brands in China have not seen a
large dent in business despite a
prolonged diplomatic dispute over
Taiwan. Data from analytics firm show
some brands even clocking an increase in
business. Bloomberg's China
correspondent Minmin Loh is here with
more on this. So what is the analytics
telling us?
So I think it's interesting because we
have the Chinese government taking a
series of measures, right? Including
telling people not to go to Japan. They
have suspended the approval of Japanese
films. They have banned Japanese
seafood. But if you take a pulse on the
ground and you go to the Japanese
restaurants and the shops, people are
still shopping there. So it tells you a
few things. I I think it's really a big
contrast to what happened in 2012 during
the national nationalization of the
Senkaku Islands where Chinese state
media had put out a lot of commentary
and really riled up the public and
incited very widespread boycott of
Japanese goods. We're not seeing that
this time. So clearly China is carefully
calibrating the response to ensure we
don't see the the kind of fallout that
was almost a little bit spiraling out of
out of control at the time. Um number
two, I think generally people seem to be
able to separate politics and government
versus what's happening in their lives
because we interviewed some of them.
They are saying politics is politics.
They just want to have a good meal. Um
And the third thing is I guess Japanese
soft power is pretty sticky. Yeah,
right. So I've been getting anecdotal
evidence up in Niseko in northern Japan
of of going there this weekend and the
businesses there are saying that I've
talked to, no impact from this right
now.
>> I just remembered, you know, there was
this sushi chain called
Sushiro Yes. which opened in Shanghai
recently. They opened new branches and
they were queued as long as 14 hours
long according to media reports. So you
took part in this latest Bloomberg mini
doc on Chinese soft power. What what's
the conclusion there? Um so we made this
mini doc mini doc because we were just
looking
back at the past year. And I think one
of the themes that have emerged this
year is how there has been a rise of
these Chinese brands, Chinese soft
power, brands that you now recognize as,
you know, good quality, good branding
because in the past China used to make
all these brandless, labeless, sort of
mass production type of goods, right?
But now you have the likes of Pop Mart,
even Lao Feng Gold, which is such a
distinctly Chinese brand, so different
from any jewelry brand out there. It's
very, you know, tapping on Chinese
identity, the long sort of heritage of
artistry from from Imperial days. Um and
it's interesting to see that the rise of
the Chinese soft power. So take a look
at this short teaser that we have cut
for you.
Shoes,
phones, windows to alternate realities.
Many of our favorite products are made
in China, but designed elsewhere. Well,
that narrative's beginning to change a
bit.
Pop Mart shares rise to a record [music]
as the CEO announces a new mini Labubu.
And the game award goes to
Black Myth: Wukong.
>> [music]
>> In the past China was creating all these
low value products and it's very hard to
gain soft power from that. But as you
move up the value chain, the natural
byproduct is that your soft power also
increases. We will continue to actually
see more of them um penetrating [music]
into various overseas markets. As power
of China in the global economy has
increased, it's an opportunity for them
to go [music] and invest in these other
markets similar to the way that American
companies probably did in post-war
America.
Although no one's saying that's going to
be smooth sailing.
A lot of the challenges for Chinese
brands, especially in the US, depends a
lot on the political uncertainties that
have been unfolding under Donald Trump.
Some are locked out of whole markets,
while others have invited a certain kind
of rhetoric. The Chinese government has
that data.
So, [music] with Chinese brands seeming
to win over global consumers,
could they also help with something much
less tangible? What we're seeing now is
an emergence of Chinese soft power into
[music] the rest of the world.
So, I think recently we have heard
President Xi, for example, saying that
he wants China to be a cultural
powerhouse by 2035. And I think there is
a recognition from the government that
soft power is useful, right? It could
blunt the impact of hostility in terms
of global policies. You look at TikTok,
for example, it was pretty much saved
from the worst outcome because people
like TikTok and President Trump likes
TikTok.
Um and
but I think what is different now is
that when we see this new crop of
Chinese companies, it's a it's a natural
byproduct, right, of China moving up the
value chain and it's not state-directed.
That's the key thing. It's innovative
and it's not necessarily replicating.
Yeah. Yeah. And these entrepreneurs are
now becoming almost like accidental
ambassadors of the country. And there's
been actually some debate, you know,
about, you know,
Pop Mart's Labubu, for example, why
isn't it more Chinese? And I think a big
mistake is if the government does come
in to regulate and say, "Let's make it
more state-directed," then it's going
to, you know, really diminish a lot of
the power.
Min Min, great reporting and great
package, of course. You can watch that
in full uh later today, but that was our
China correspondent Min Min Loh there.
And just as we uh finish off the show
today, we do need to bring you an alert
that's just crossed on the terminal, but
a tsunami advisory has been issued for
Japan's um
Aomori,
Iwate. Uh that's according to the NHK.
[music]
So, we're just getting this reading here
that a 6.5 magnitude earthquake off the
east coast of Honshu, Japan has been be
on the Japanese scale, so [music] it
probably be in the sevens uh in the
international scale. So, 6.5 is a pretty
big aftershock from the previous
earthquake that we had what, last week,
right? Which was about 6.5 as well.
Yeah, we're getting more more [music]
lines on this. We'll bring you the
details after this ad break. More ahead,
this is Bloomberg.